
## Preparations

1. The following executables must be copied or generated or linked into these locations, `mydumper` and `sync_diff_inspector` can be downloaded from [tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64](http://download.pingcap.org/tidb-enterprise-tools-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz):

    * `bin/tidb-server`
    * `bin/sync_diff_inspector`
    * `bin/mydumper`
    * `bin/dm-master.test` # generated by `make dm_integration_test_build`
    * `bin/dm-worker.test` # generated by `make dm_integration_test_build`
    * `bin/dm-master.test.current` # used for compatibility test, need renamed from `bin/dm-master.test` by manual
    * `bin/dm-worker.test.current` # used for compatibility test, need renamed from `bin/dm-worker.test` by manual
    * `bin/dm-master.test.previous` # used for compatibility test, need renamed from `bin/dm-master.test` by manual
    * `bin/dm-worker.test.previous` # used for compatibility test, need renamed from `bin/dm-worker.test` by manual
    * [gh-ost](https://github.com/github/gh-ost) # must be added to path, or you can `export GHOST_BINARY=/path/to/gh-ost-binary`
    * [pt-online-schema-change](https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-toolkit/LATEST/pt-online-schema-change.html) # must be added to path, or you can `export PTOSC_BINARY=/path/to/pt-osc-binary`

2. The following programs must be installed:

    * `mysql` (the CLI client)
    * `python2.7` or `python3.x`

3. The user executing the tests must have permission to create the folder `/tmp/dm_test`. All test artifacts will be written into this folder.

## Running

### Prepare MySQL servers

You can run multiple MySQL servers by:

1. Initialize two data directories.

    (MySQL)

    ```sh
    mysqld --initialize-insecure --datadir=mysqld1
    mysqld --initialize-insecure --datadir=mysqld2
    ```

    (MariaDB)

    ```sh
    mysql_install_db --auth-root-authentication-method=normal --datadir=/mysqld1
    mysql_install_db --auth-root-authentication-method=normal --datadir=/mysqld2
    ```

2. Start the MySQL servers

    ```sh
    mysqld --datadir=/mysqld1 --socket=/mysqld1/mysql.sock --pid-file=/mysqld1/mysql.pid --port=3306 &
    mysqld --datadir=/mysqld2 --socket=/mysqld2/mysql.sock --pid-file=/mysqld2/mysql.pid --port=3307 &
    ```

3. Verify the connections work

    ```sh
    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 3306 -e 'select version();'
    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 3307 -e 'select version();'
    ```

### Unit Test

1. Setup a MySQL server with binlog enabled first, export proper environment variable `MYSQL_HOST`, `MYSQL_PORT`, `MYSQL_USER`, `MYSQL_PSWD`, default is `127.0.0.1`, `3306`, `root` and empty password.

2. Run `make test` to run unit test

### Integration Test

1. Run `make dm_integration_test_build` to generate DM related binary for integration test

2. Run `make integration_test` to execute the integration tests. This command will

    1. Check that all required executables exist.
    2. Execute `tests/run.sh`

    > If want to run one integration test case only, just pass the CASE parameter, such as `make integration_test CASE=sharding`.

    > There exists some environment variables that you can set by yourself, including `MYSQL_HOST1`, `MYSQL_PORT1`, `MYSQL_HOST2`, `MYSQL_PORT2`, `RESET_MASTER`. If `RESET_MASTER` is not set or set to true, `RESET MASTER` will be executed at upstream MySQL before each case.

    > The online DDL test using pt-osc doesn't work if the upstream MySQL has different connect port and bind port (often caused by port forwarding via NAT). In this case, you must specify the real IP and port of MySQL. Otherwise you can skip online DDL test by `export ONLINE_DDL_ENABLE=false`.

4. After executing the tests, run `make coverage` to get a coverage report at `/tmp/dm_test/all_cov.html`.

### Compatibility Test

1. Run Compatibility test

    Run `make compatibility_test` will run compatibility test.

2. Run other test with different version's dm-master and dm-worker

   Run `make compatibility_test CASE={test_case}`, for example, `make compatibility_test CASE=http_apis` will run test `http_apis` with previous dm-master and current dm-worker, and also current dm-master and previous dm-worker. The `test_case` can be `all`, and will run all the test cases.

## Writing new tests

New integration tests can be written as shell scripts in `tests/TEST_NAME/run.sh`. The script should exit with a nonzero error code on failure.

> Note the integration test runs in parallel, and new added test case is not listed in CI, so remember to add the `TEST_NAME` of new added test case to file `others_integration.txt` in a newline.

Several convenient commands are provided:

* `run_dm_master <WORKDIR> <PORT> <CONFIG>` — Starts `dm-master` using config provided, on given port, running in workdir.
* `run_dm_worker <WORKDIR> <PORT> <CONFIG>` — Starts `dm-worker` using config provided, on given port, running in workdir.
* `run_dm_ctl <WORKDIR> <MASTER_ADDR> <DMCTL_COMMAND>` - Runs `dmctl` with given command in non-interactive mode.
* `run_sql <SQL> <PORT> <PASSWORD>` — Executes an SQL query in database based on port provided
* `run_sql_file <path_to_SQL_file> <HOST> <PORT> <PASSWORD>` — Executes all SQLs in given file to the database on port provided
* `run_sql_file_online_ddl <path_to_SQL_file> <HOST> <PORT> <PASSWORD> <DB> <ONLINE DDL TOOL>` — Executes all SQLs in given file, will auto switch DDL to online DDL command.
* `check_contains <TEXT>` — Checks if the previous `run_sql`/`run_sql_file` result contains the given text (in `-E` format)
* `check_sync_diff <WORKDIR> <CONFIG>` - Runs `sync_diff_inspector` to check diff between databases, using config file provided
* `check_rpc_alive <CHECK_TOOL> <ADDR>` - Wrapper to check a rpc address is available, at most 10 times.
* `check_port_alive <PORT>` - Wrapper to check a port is alive, at most 20 times.
* `check_port <HOST> <PORT>` - Checks a host:port is alive.
* `wait_process_exit <process_name>` - Wait for one or more processes to exit by given process name.
* `check_metric <PORT> <METRIC_NAME> <RETRY_COUNT> <VALUE PATTERN LIST>...` - check metric value from prometheus.
* `truncate_trace_events <PORT>` - truncate trace server events records.

